The POG Champs

Group Contacts:
Landon Faris - email: lrfaris@uwm.edu      Discord: landor341     Github: landor341
Vasiliy Kravtsov - email: vasiliy@uwm.edu  Discord: Relaksen#8159 Github: vasiliykravtsov
Christopher Przekurat - ctpjr@uwm.edu      Discord: ChrisP        GitHub: ctpjr
YU-ERH, PAN -  email: yuerhpan@uwm.edu     Discord: p304          Github: YU-ERH
Toby Buckmaster - email: buckmas4@uwm.edu  Discord: bonquifo      Github: tobyish111


Ground Rules:
Meetings:

1. Length of meetings:
The purpose of meetings is to establish communication and give direction to the project.
15-minute online meeting will be held on Tuesday at 9:00 p.m.
Meetings once a week should be enough unless it is decided by the group that additional meetings should be scheduled. 
This communication should take place through the Discord group. 
It is understood that if a meeting takes too long, members may have to leave for work obligations. 
This type of situation will not constitute and offense.

2. Missing a meeting:
An occasional missing of a meeting can be accepted. 
If however an individual repeatedly misses a meeting without good cause, some disciplinary action may have to be taken.
Acceptable justification of a missed meeting includes, but is not limited to: injury, illness,
family emergency, work, conflicting class schedule, or death (yourself or other). 
If a meeting is missed for any other reason, the affected group members will decide as to
whether the reason for missing the meeting is acceptable or in need of disciplinary action.
Two meetings missed without Discord valid excuse will result in a minor offence. 
Three will result in a major offence.

3. Tardiness to meetings:
A person being obviously late for a meeting and not fitting the structure of "on time" shall
be given over to disciplinary action as described in minor offence. 
On time means the time the meeting is scheduled to start (9:00pm on Tuesday). 
If an individual arrives at a meeting after the start time and the meeting has yet to get into 
purposeful conversation then it may be overlooked. 
However if there is no good excuse for being late and the meeting is clearly underway when the 
individual arrives then at the end of the meeting it will be discussed as to whether disciplinary 
action will have to be taken. 
Being late to a meeting more than once constitutes a minor offence. 
Records of being late will be recorded by group note taker.

4. Phone use, food and drinks during meetings:
Not be too much to ask the outside phone calls unless they are perceived to be an emergency.
The taking of phone calls will come into question if they are taken often during meetings and
the offender will be politely asked to discontinue. 
If the behavior continues, it will be discussed among the group as to whether it should be a minor offense. 
Checking a text message will be allowed as well as sending an occasional text to let someone know you
are in a meeting and will get back to them. 
However social texting will not be allowed and the offender will again be politely asked to stop. 
If the behavior continues it will be discussed among the group as to whether it should be a minor offence.
No food during meetings.
No limit of drink during meeting.


Work Norms:
1. Work Assignments:
a. Sprint Commitment:
In sprint planning meetings each user will be assigned roughly the same amount of work.
Each week each person can be expected to complete at least two small stories worth of work.

b. Time Commitment Exemptions:
If someone has an appropriate reason to not be able to do as much work then they will be assigned less work. 
Needing a work exemption for more than 1 sprint will result in a minor group offense for all subsequent exemptions.

2. Work Habits:
Members of the group may work at any time that is convienent for them so long as it reasonably fits into the assigned deadlines.


Goals:
1. To adhere well as a group, respecting each member, and supporting each member by
working together to accomplish the goals listed below and adhering to this charter.
2. To gain a more intimate knowledge of the software life cycle by working as a group to
develop a quality product worth an “A”.
3. To attain practical knowledge and experience of what it means to be a software engineer
and to familiarize ourselves with the methods and practices that are required to pull
together a team project.

Work expectations:

1. How much work 
  Try to evenly distribute work, if someone knows how to do something better than the rest of the group they are the first pick for that task.

2. When work 
  Weekly Lab 
  9PM Tuesday weekly meeting on discord
3. Quality of work (Consistently bad MRs)-  

How to make new policies:
  Majority vote either in person or through Discord


Group Communication and Interaction:

1. Communication Tools: 
Group members are expected to use discord as the main method communicate with each other. The UWM email may be
used as a form of backup communication when members are unable to use discord.

2. Communication Expectations:
All of the group members are expected to be present at the weekly stand up which will occur on Tuesdays at 21:00 CST
in Discord for 15 minutes. Any other communication including more than one and up to all of the group members outside
of this time will be done as necessary through Discord and decided on by the members involved.

3. Meeting Attendance:
All of the group members are required to attend the weekly stand up that is held on Tuesdays. Members are expected to
report any circumstances that would prevent them from participating in the weekly stand up 24 hours prior to the meeting
time in a non-emergency scenario. Not following these meeting attendance guidelines and missing two meetings will result
in a minor group offense.

4. Group Structure:
Meeting Leader: Makes sure all meetings are on topic and that all individuals voices are heard
Recorder: Posts recaps of all meetings and records offenses
Github Manager: Manages the groups repositorys to ensure that proper git procedures are being followed.

5. Decision Making:
Any decisions which need to be made about the project, project direction or disciplinary
action will be made by a majority vote. Any decisions about delegation will be covered in
part six.

6. Group Decisions on Delegation:
The delegation of responsibilities to group members will be decided in the following
fashion. The responsibilities will be discussed and decided on as a group decision. Then
each group member has the opportunity to volunteer for the task he may want. If a group
member does not volunteer for a task, they will be assigned one by Yoda. If a group
member feels the portion of responsibility is unfair, they may voice their concern and
state a reason why. If a majority of the group feels this member is correct, the
responsibilities will be reformed and the delegation process will start again.



Disciplinary Procedures:
1. Regarding disciplinary actions:
Any disciplinary action to be administered can be overridden by group conscience, if
decided by a majority vote.


2. Disciplinary Log:
The note taker will be responsible for logging any information on offenses committed by
any member. This report will be sent out with the meeting notes every week so each
member knows where they stand. This can also be covered in our 15 minute weekly standup. 


3. Minor Group Offence:
A minor group offence can occur for breaking indicated statutes of the charter. Minor
offences require the offender to recognize their mistake and quickly rectify this along with fixing 
any other potentially cascading problems. This can include arriving late without notifying team memebers,
forgetting to meet a deadline or just forgetting to push their parts to contribute. 


4. Major Group Offence:
A major group offence can occur by breaking indicated statutes of the charter, or for
accumulation of 3 or more minor offences. Major offences require that the offender has already 
committed (no pun intended) multiple minor offences with this offence carrying more weight. This can 
include deleting any valuable parts of the project, malicious intent, or outright sabotage of someones area
or the whole project. They are expected to acknowledge their mistake. 


5. Punishment and Dismissal:
A group member committing enough minor and major offences will be discussed with a notified Professor Rock
and will potentially be dismissed from the group. 


We, the team named Pogchamps agree with the Group Charter and will try our best to uphold it.



Name Toby Buckmaster  Date 10/31/24
Name Christopher Przekurat Date 10/31/24
Name YU-ERH, PAN Date 10/31/24
Name Landon Faris Date 10/31/24
Name Vasiliy Kravtsov Date 10/31/24
